[WIP] Peer review chapter (#2180)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/communication/peer-review/peer-review-overview.md

> (cm-pr-overview)=

Reviewer: I think this section could maybe be moved to the top of the chapter? So having the types of peer review at the top, then going into detail about the journal type of peer review

# Peer Review Types

## Levels of Peer Review
* *Step 1* - Peer review often happens informally among team members.
Feedback helps improve your project, on its way to being shared with the broader community.​
* *Step 2* - The project is going well, but it needs input from the broader community to reach it's full potential.
This stage is often where the formal peer review process happens, but in an open project this level of feedback is often provided throughout.​
* *Step 3* - By incorporating everyone's ideas, the project unites the community and percieves feedback as a way to improve projects rather than as a competitive process.

We see peer review as an important exercise in [collaboration](We need to add links to collaboration here) not limited to a quality-safeguard procedure.
However, in current research practice, peer review often appears as a hurdle everyone needs to pass through.

## Types of Peer Review
​
Peer review is a critical component of advancing research. Types of peer review include:
* manuscripts
* software (including code, documentation, and examples)
* communication and presentation materials

> For manuscripts, one of the added values of a journal articles, compared to, for instance, a preprint is that it has been [peer reviewed and modified by the author in response to the reviewer's suggestions](here we need to ling to guidlines). 

Reviewer: I would maybe move this sentence up to the section you had earlier "Peer review can be formal or informal and ideally occurs at different levels throughout a project. In the traditional publishing model, there was a lot of focus on the peer review process of a journal article."
The Open access chapter also defines preprints if you want to link to that

Author: I am not sure I fully understood, but I did something )))

(cm-pr-overview)=

# Peer Review Types

## Types of Peer Review
​

> Peer review is a critical component of advancing research. Types of peer review include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Peer review is a critical component of advancing research. Peer review can be done on many different research outputs, including:
```

* manuscripts 
* software (including code, documentation, and examples)

> * dataseets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* datasets
```

* communication and presentation materials

> Peer review can be formal or informal and ideally occurs at different levels throughout a project. In the traditional publishing model, there was a lot of focus on the peer review process of a journal article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Peer review can be formal or informal and ideally occurs at different levels throughout a project. When most people think of peer review they think of this in the context of reviewing a journal article.
```

> For manuscripts, one of the added values of a journal articles, compared to, for instance, a {ref}`preprint<rr-open-access-whatis-publishing>` is that it has been [peer reviewed and modified by the author in response to the reviewer's suggestions](here we need to link to guidlines). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Journal articles, as opposed to preprints {ref}`preprint<rr-open-access-whatis-publishing>`, have gone through the peer review process- the paper has been peer reviewed and modified by the author in response to the reviewer's suggestions, so these papers are seen to have added value. 
```
